doc: add suit SMP readme (#15287)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/suit/smp_transfer/README.rst

> :orphan:

Reviewer: Note that this won't be applied in the current structure, because the :orphaned: SUIT samples are made visible by the toctree inclusion on this page: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/samples/suit.html

Both samples visible there are orphaned.

.. _nrf54h_suit_sample:

> SUIT DFU: Firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SUIT: Device firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC
```
To me, SUIT itself is about DFU, DFU next to it is also about DFU, and then we have "firmware update" right after it. This is a lot of firmware updates in one title.

#############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The sample demonstrates how to update and boot the nRF54H20 System-on-Chip (SoC) using the :ref:`Software Update for Internet of Things (SUIT) <ug_nrf54h20_suit_intro>` procedure on the application and radio cores of the SoC.
The update on the nRF54H20 SoC can be done over Bluetooth® Low Energy or UART.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp

You need the nRF Device Manager app for SUIT update over Bluetooth Low Energy:

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for Android`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.9.)

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for iOS`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.5.)

> For a SUIT update over UART, you need to install MCUmgr.
> MCUmgr is a tool that can be used to upload SUIT envelopes through the SMP protocol.
> For more information on MCUmgr installation, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a SUIT update over UART, you need to install :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr`, a tool that can be used to upload SUIT envelopes through the SMP protocol.
```
Shorter suggestion, nothing wrong with the original.

* Bluetooth Low Energy and the nRF Device Manager app
* UART and MCUmgr

The sample demonstrates how to perform a DFU of the application and radio firmware.

SUIT is the only DFU procedure supported for the nRF54H20 SoCs.
To read more about the SUIT procedure, see :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_intro`.

|NCS|-specific SUIT limitations
===============================

The sample and the SUIT DFU procedure currently only support the application core and the radio core firmware updates.
Additionally, this sample is an early version and is only meant to showcase the start of Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT DFU procedure.

User interface
**************

LED 1:
    The number of blinks indicates the application SUIT envelope sequence number.
    The default is set to ``1`` to blink once, indicating "Version 1".

Configuration
*************

|config|

The default configuration uses UART with sequence number 1 (shown as Version 1 in the nRF Device Manager app).
To change the sequence number of the application, configure the :ref:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM` Kconfig option.

> This also changes the number of blinks on **LED 1** and sets the :ref:`sequence number <ug_suit_dfu_suit_manifest_elements>` of the SUIT :ref:`envelope <ug_suit_dfu_suit_concepts>`’s manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also changes the number of blinks on **LED 1** and sets the :ref:`sequence number <ug_suit_dfu_suit_manifest_elements>` of the :ref:`SUIT envelope <ug_suit_dfu_suit_concepts>`'s manifest.
```

> To use this configuration, build the sample with sysbuild and set the ``SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM`` Sysbuild Kconfig option to ``x``, where ``x`` is the version number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this configuration, build the sample with :ref:`configuration_system_overview_sysbuild` and set the ``SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM`` Sysbuild Kconfig option to ``x``, where ``x`` is the version number.
```

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

If you do not specify this configuration, the sample is built with sequence number 1 (shown as Version 1 in the nRF Device Manager app).

Configuration options
=====================

Check and configure the following configuration option for the sample:

> .. _CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM:

Author: Applied

CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM - Configuration for the sequence number.
   The sample configuration updates the sequence number of the SUIT envelope, which is reflected as the version of the application in the nRF Device Manager app.
   The default value is ``1``.

Modify partition sizes
======================

You can also modify the size and location of the partitions.
This is done by modifying the values for the desired location and size of the partition in the devicetree :file:`.overlay` files.

* To modify the application core’s partition size,  modify the values for ``cpuapp_slot0_partition`` defined in the :file:`zephyr/blob/main/boards/nordic/nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20-memory_map.dtsi` file within the Zephyr repository.

> * To modify the DFU partition, modify the values for ``dfu_partition`` defined in :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer/boards/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp.overlay`.
> 
>     * ``dfu_partition`` is where the update candidate is stored before the update process begins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To modify the DFU partition, modify the values for ``dfu_partition`` defined in :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer/boards/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp.overlay`.
  This partition is where the update candidate is stored before the update process begins.
```
This is a nit.
If the intention is to highlight the importance of this partition, then maybe you can add this entry between lines 94 and 95, in a list that describes the purpose of both this partition and `cpuapp_slot0_partition`? Just a suggestion.

         For more information on the contents of the build directory, see :ref:`zephyr:build-directory-contents` in the Zephyr documentation.
         For more information on the directory contents and structure provided by Sysbuild, see :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild` in the Zephyr documentation..

      #. Connect the DK to your computer using a USB cable.
      #. Power on the DK.
      #. Program the sample to the kit (see :ref:`programming_cmd` for instructions).

         .. note::

            |application_sample_long_path_windows|

            In this case, you may need to run the following instead:

            .. code-block:: console

               west flash --erase -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir

      #. Update the SUIT envelope sequence number, by rebuilding the sample with an updated sequence number:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

         .. note::

            |application_sample_long_path_windows|

            In this case, you may need to run the following instead:

            .. code-block:: console

>                west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir --sysbuild -- -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

Reviewer: Hm, would it be possible to post this note at the beginning of the procedure once, with some generic information, instead of repeating it 5 times within the same procedure? I know the command is different each time, but also what is critical for this information -- `-d <path>` -- stays the same.

.. _nrf54h_suit_sample:

SUIT DFU: Firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC
#############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The sample demonstrates how to update and boot the nRF54H20 System-on-Chip (SoC) using the Software Update for Internet of Things (SUIT) procedure on the Application and Radio Cores of the SoC.
The update on the nRF54H20 SoC can be done over Bluetooth® Low Energy or UART.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp

You need the nRF Connect Device Manager app for SUIT update over Bluetooth Low Energy:

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for Android`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.9.)

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for iOS`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.5.)

For a SUIT update over UART, you need to install MCUmgr.
MCUmgr is a tool that can be used to upload SUIT envelopes through the SMP protocol.

> For more information on MCUmgr installation, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr`.

Reviewer 2: Let's keep the MCUmgr for now. The nrfutil is not ready to do the UART transfers ATM.

> For more information on MCUmgr installation, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr`.

Author: Okay, sounds good

If you want to make modifications to how the DFU is executed in this sample, you can do so by editing the manifest templates.
See the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu` user guide for instructions and examples.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer`

This sample can be found under |sample path| in the |NCS| folder structure.

Building and programming using the command line
===============================================

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 DK, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Over Bluetooth Low Energy

      1. Open a terminal window in |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample using the following ``west`` command, with the following Kconfig options set:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=1

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

>                west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir --sysbuild -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=1

Author: Can the ``-d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir`` part be removed?

Reviewer 2: rather not - this is a trick to shorten the build path on Windows :slightly_smiling_face:

:orphan:

.. _nrf54h_suit_sample:

SUIT DFU: Firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC
#############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The sample demonstrates how to update and boot the nRF54H20 System-on-Chip (SoC) using the Software Update for Internet of Things (SUIT) procedure on the Application and Radio Cores of the SoC.
The update on the nRF54H20 SoC can be done over Bluetooth® Low Energy or UART.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp

You need the nRF Device Manager app for SUIT update over Bluetooth Low Energy:

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for Android`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.9.)

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for iOS`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.5.)

For a SUIT update over UART, you need to install MCUmgr.
MCUmgr is a tool that can be used to upload SUIT envelopes through the SMP protocol.

> For more information on MCUmgr installation, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr`.

Reviewer: Does this mean that one also needs to (or can) use the samples/common MCUmgr component if I want to use MCUmgr?

Author: @tomchy I believe Greg maybe referring to the `CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` Kconfig option found in samples/common (See [here](https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/15166/files#diff-73049ba9c9a3b317f962ed3fbce65d49a907d8d57a56946e0ac6185fce2d93feR167-R169) for description).

My guess is no, it is not required and/or it has not been tested for SUIT specifically yet?

Reviewer: Yes, I'm referring to `CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU`. When we discussed `CONFIG_NCS_SAMPLE_MCUMGR_BT_OTA_DFU` in the call, Kamil Piszczek said it can be used with whatever sample that uses Bluetooth LE, so I'd like to make sure there are no collisions between that Kconfig option ("MCUmgr component") and this implementation.

Reviewer 2: It cannot be used ATM, because it depends on `BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` which is not compatible with nRF54Hxx devices.
I have not heard of this Kconfig before and I do not know if it should be supported on nRF54H (so it would depend on the SUIT and our implementation of SMP image group).

Overview
********

> The sample uses one of the following to perform an update on the nRF54H20 SoC, featuring Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT procedure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample uses one of the following methods to perform a firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC, featuring Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT procedure:
```

* Bluetooth Low Energy and the nRF Connect Device Manager app
* UART and MCUmgr

The sample demonstrates how to perform a DFU of the Application and Radio firmware.

SUIT is the only DFU procedure supported for the nRF54H20 SoCs.
To read more about the SUIT procedure, see :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_intro`.

|NCS|-specific SUIT limitations
===============================

The sample and the SUIT DFU procedure currently only support the Application Core and the Radio Core firmware updates.
Additionally, this sample is an early version and is only meant to showcase the start of Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT DFU procedure.

User interface
**************

LED 1:
    The number of blinks indicates the application SUIT envelope sequence number.
    The default is set to ``1`` to blink once, indicating "Version 1".

Configuration
*************

|config|

> The default configuration uses UART with Version 1.

Reviewer 2: `Version` -> `sequence number` ?

Author: Would it be okay to rewrite to include both? Something like:
```suggestion
The default configuration uses UART with sequence number 1 (shown as Version 1 in the nRF Connect Device Manager app).
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, as long as you talk about `nRF Connect Device Manager app` it is fine :+1:

> To change the version of the application, configure the :ref:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: `version` -> `sequence number` ?

This also changes the number of blinks on **LED 1** and sets the :ref:`sequence number <ug_suit_dfu_suit_manifest_elements>` of the SUIT :ref:`envelope <ug_suit_dfu_suit_concepts>`’s manifest.

> To use this configuration, include the ``-DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=x`` option with the build command, where x is the version number.

Reviewer 2: Once again changed `CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM` to a sysbuild KConfig: `SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM`. That way it is a common value for all manifests that are generated by the build system.

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

> If you do not specify this configuration, the sample is built with Version 1.

Reviewer 2: `Version` -> `sequence number`

Configuration options
=====================

Check and configure the following configuration option for the sample:

.. _CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM:

> CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM - Configuration for the application version

Reviewer 2: Please rephrase all references to the application version.

   The sample configuration updates the sequence number of the SUIT envelope, which is reflected as the version of the application in the nRF Device Manager app.
   The default value is ``1``.

Modify partition sizes
======================

You can also modify the size and location of the partitions.
This is done by modifying the values for the desired location and size of the partition in the devicetree :file:`.overlay` files.

* To modify the Application Core’s partition size,  modify the values for ``cpuapp_slot0_partition`` defined in the :file:`zephyr/blob/main/boards/nordic/nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20-memory_map.dtsi` file within the Zephyr repository.

* To modify the DFU partition, modify the values for ``dfu_partition`` defined in :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer/boards/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp.overlay`.

    * ``dfu_partition`` is where the update candidate is stored before the update process begins.

Manifest template files

> =======================

Reviewer: The title suggests to me I would find here a list of the template files. Not finding the detailed list and having the note here that mentions the radio domain manifest template makes me really confused. Only later, when I read about building, can I really understand what this note means. (I guess you mean `radio.suit` here?) For this reason, I think the order of presenting information here is not optimal.

Author: That is a good point - I will take a look and try to reorder.
I have also just realised that this note may not be true anymore, and then can be removed (will check with SMEs). But will still try to adjust the order

If you want to make modifications to how the DFU is executed in this sample, you can do so by editing the manifest templates.
See the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu` user guide for instructions and examples.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer`

This sample can be found under |sample path| in the |NCS| folder structure.

Building and programming using the command line
===============================================

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 DK, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Over Bluetooth Low Energy

      1. Open a terminal window in |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample using the following ``west`` command, with the following Kconfig options set:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=1

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

>                west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir --sysbuild -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=1

Reviewer: Please integrate this whole note with the shortcut we already have: |application_sample_long_path_windows| and that is used on https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/config_and_build/configuring_app/index.html

You can for example expand the shortcut with the mention of "for example, when building on the command line, you can add the shortened path using the ``-d`` parameter". Then, you can use the shortcut here, and keep the example build command.

>          If you want to further configure your sample, see :ref:`configure_application` for additional information.

Reviewer: This is already mentioned in line 65. Let's not duplicate refs.

>          After running the ``west build`` command, the output build files can be found in the :file:`build/DFU` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         The output build files can be found in the :file:`build/DFU` directory.
```

         The following build artifacts are found with both firmware binaries embedded as integrated payloads:

          * :file:`root.suit` - This file is the most important envelope, containing the embedded :file:`application.suit` and :file:`radio.suit` files as integrated dependencies.
            These files are used to execute DFU.
          * :file:`application.suit` - This file is the envelope for the Application Core, containing embedded Application Core firmware as an integrated payload.

>           * :file:`radio.suit` - This file is the envelop for the Radio Core, containing embedded radio core firmware as an integrated payload.

Reviewer 2: nit: `envelop` -> `envelope`

>          For more information about files generated as output of the build process, see :ref:`app_build_output_files`.

Reviewer: Can we have these files added to the list in :ref:`app_build_output_files` too? You could for example add a section there for SUIT output files, or even a whole section for DFU output files with SUIT as a subsection of this new section?

Author: Will do

Author: Added (will be reflected in the next push). 
Also made a ticket to review the Output files page again for new SUIT section before 2.7, as need SMEs to confirm if list contains all output files, or if names have changed.

         For more information on the contents of the build directory, see :ref:`zephyr:build-directory-contents` in the Zephyr documentation.
         For more information on the directory contents and structure provided by sysbuild, see :ref:`zephyr:sysbuild` in the Zephyr documentation.

      #. Connect the DK to your computer using a USB cable.
      #. Power on the DK.
      #. Program the sample to the kit using the following command:

         .. code-block:: console

>             west flash

Reviewer: This is the standard command, so I would rather link to https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/config_and_build/programming.html . Also, the recommended method for programming is using ``--erase``, so if this is an exception, it should be stated.

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

>                west flash -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir

Reviewer: See comment above.

   .. group-tab:: Over UART

      1. Open a terminal window in |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample:

         .. code-block:: console

             west build -p -b --sysbuild nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

>                west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:\ncs-lcs\west_working_dir\build\

Reviewer 2: missing: `--sysbuild`

> 

Reviewer: Ditto.

         If you want to further configure your sample, see :ref:`configure_application` for additional information.

>          After running the ``west build`` command, the output build files can be found in the :file:`build/zephyr` directory.

Reviewer 2: `build/zephyr` -> `build/DFU`

         The following build artifacts are found with both firmware binaries embedded as integrated payloads:

          * :file:`root.suit` - This file is the most important envelope, containing embedded :file:`app.suit` as an integrated dependency.
            This file is used to execute DFU.
          * :file:`app.suit` - This file is the envelope for the Application Core, containing embedded Application Core firmware as an integrated payload.

         For more information about files generated as output of the build process, see :ref:`app_build_output_files`.

>          For more information on the contents of the build directory, see :ref:`zephyr:build-directory-contents` in the Zephyr documentation.

Reviewer: Ditto.

      #. Connect the DK to your computer using a USB cable.
      #. Power on the DK.
      #. Program the sample to the kit using the following command:

         .. code-block:: console

            west flash

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

>                west flash -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir

Reviewer: Ditto.

Building and programming using |nRFVSC|
=======================================

> To build the sample using |VSC|, follow the steps listed on the `How to build an application`_ page in the |nRFVSC| documentation.

Reviewer 2: It has been verified once in sdk-nrf-next and the next round is planned to be a part of NCSDK-24867.

> To build the sample using |VSC|, follow the steps listed on the `How to build an application`_ page in the |nRFVSC| documentation.

Author: Okay, will remove for now but have added to an existing ticket to watch for this/update if needed

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, complete the following steps to test it.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Over Bluetooth Low Energy

      1. **Update the envelope sequence number:**

         Build the sample with an updated sequence number:

         .. code-block:: console

>             west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

Author: Still looking into this, with @richabp

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

>                west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -DCONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

Reviewer 2: missing: `--sysbuild`

.. _nrf54h_suit_sample:

SUIT DFU: Firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC
#############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The sample demonstrates how to update and boot the nRF54H20 System-on-Chip (SoC) using the Software Update for Internet of Things (SUIT) procedure on the Application and Radio Cores of the SoC.
The update on the nRF54H20 SoC can be done over Bluetooth® Low Energy or UART.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp

You need the nRF Connect Device Manager app for SUIT update over Bluetooth Low Energy:

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for Android`_

>   (The minimum required version is v1.9.)

Reviewer 2: Due to ZCBOR incompatibilities, we will need a new version of the app(s).

Author: Okay, do we know yet if it is the latest version of the apps/ a specific version no.?

Reviewer 2: It is still in development. The next version will be 1.10.

Author: Do we know when it will be released? If not, perhaps we can merge this PR for now, and I can create a task to update this when the next version is out. Doc freeze is 6 June, so we have until then.

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for iOS`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.5.)

> For a SUIT update over UART, you need to install MCUmgr.

Reviewer 2: If I'm not mistaken, it will be replaced bu nrfutil.

Author: Okay, please let me know/or we can discuss with team how this should be rewritten.

MCUmgr is a tool that can be used to upload SUIT envelopes through the SMP protocol.
For more information on MCUmgr installation, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr`.

Overview
********

The sample uses one of the following to perform an update on the nRF54H20 SoC, featuring Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT procedure:

* Bluetooth Low Energy and the nRF Connect Device Manager app
* UART and MCUmgr

The sample demonstrates how to perform a DFU of the Application and Radio firmware.

SUIT is the only DFU procedure supported for the nRF54H20 SoCs.

> To read more about the SUIT procedure, see :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_intro`.

Reviewer 2: Is the user guide migrated to NCS?

Author: Yes

|NCS|-specific SUIT limitations
===============================

The sample and the SUIT DFU procedure currently only support the Application Core and the Radio Core firmware updates.
Additionally, this sample is an early version and is only meant to showcase the start of Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT DFU procedure.

User interface
**************

LED 1:

>     The number of blinks indicates the application firmware version.

Reviewer 2: not `application firmware version`, but `application SUIT envelope sequence number`

    The default is set to ``1`` to blink once, indicating "Version 1".

Configuration
*************

|config|

The default configuration uses UART with Version 1.

> To change the version of the application, configure the :ref:`CONFIG_APP_VERSION <CONFIG_APP_VERSION>` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: The new Kconfig is: `CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM`

This also changes the number of blinks on **LED 1** and sets the :ref:`sequence number <ug_suit_dfu_suit_manifest_elements>` of the SUIT :ref:`envelope <ug_suit_dfu_suit_concepts>`’s manifest.

To use this configuration, include the ``-DCONFIG_APP_VERSION=x`` option with the build command, where x is the version number.

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_APP_VERSION=2

If you do not specify this configuration, the sample is built with Version 1.

Configuration options
=====================

Check and configure the following configuration option for the sample:

.. _CONFIG_APP_VERSION:

CONFIG_APP_VERSION - Configuration for the application version
   The sample configuration updates the version of the application.
   The default value is ``1``.

Modify partition sizes
======================

You can also modify the size and location of the partitions.
This is done by modifying the values for the desired location and size of the partition in the devicetree :file:`.overlay` files.

> * To modify the Application Core’s partition size,  modify the values for ``slot0_partition`` defined in :file:`modules/ic-next/dts/arm/nordic_nrf_next/nrf54h20_cpuapp.dtsi`.

Reviewer 2: The new DT source file is: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-zephyr/blob/main/boards/nordic/nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20-memory_map.dtsi

> * To modify the Application Core’s partition size,  modify the values for ``slot0_partition`` defined in :file:`modules/ic-next/dts/arm/nordic_nrf_next/nrf54h20_cpuapp.dtsi`.

Reviewer 2: The new name for `slot0_partition` is `cpuapp_slot0_partition`

* To modify the DFU partition, modify the values for ``dfu_partition`` defined in :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer/boards/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp.overlay`.

    * ``dfu_partition`` is where the update candidate is stored before the update process begins.

Manifest template files
=======================

All required manifest template files are automatically created after the sample is built for the first time.
These are needed to create a SUIT envelope to carry out the DFU.

.. note::

   The Radio Domain manifest template is only created when building the Bluetooth Low Energy version of the sample, and not the UART version.
   Currently, it is not needed for the UART version.

If you want to make modifications to how the DFU is executed in this sample, you can do so by editing the manifest templates.
See the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu` user guide for instructions and examples.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer`

This sample can be found under |sample path| in the |NCS| folder structure.

> .. caution::

Reviewer 2: With FP1 DKs this issue should not be reproducible (fixed _by luck_)

Author: Okay, does that mean this Caution note can be removed?

   In specific instances, after a cold boot, the nRF54H20 DK can behave like a bricked device (being unreachable via debugger, or non-booting).
   To fix the issue, briefly tap (for less than 0.5 seconds) the Reset button on the DK.

Building and programming using the command line
===============================================

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 DK, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Over Bluetooth Low Energy

      1. Open a terminal window in |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample using the following ``west`` command, with the following Kconfig options set:

         .. code-block:: console

>             west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-bt.conf -DCONFIG_APP_VERSION=1

Reviewer 2: In NCS we use:
 - `CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM` instead of `CONFIG_APP_VERSION`
 - `-DFILE_SUFFIX=bt` instead of `-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-bt.conf`
 - All of the `west build` commands must provide `--sysbuild` argument before `--` delimiter

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

               west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-bt.conf -DCONFIG_APP_VERSION=1

         If you want to further configure your sample, see :ref:`configure_application` for additional information.

>          After running the ``west build`` command, the output build files can be found in the :file:`build/zephyr` directory.

Reviewer 2: The new location is `build/DFU`

         The following build artifacts are found with both firmware binaries embedded as integrated payloads:

          * :file:`root.suit` - This file is the most important envelope, containing embedded :file:`app.suit` and :file:`hci_rpmsg_subimage.suit` as an integrated dependencies.
            These files are used to execute DFU.

>           * :file:`app.suit` - This file is the envelope for the Application Core, containing embedded Application Core firmware as an integrated payload.

Reviewer 2: We use `application.suit` instead of `app.suit`

>           * :file:`hci_rpmsg_subimage.suit` - This file is the envelop for the Radio Core, containing embedded radio core firmware as an integrated payload.

Reviewer 2: We use `radio.suit` instead of `hci_rpmsg_subimage.suit`

         For more information about files generated as output of the build process, see :ref:`app_build_output_files`.

>          For more information on the contents of the build directory, see :ref:`zephyr:build-directory-contents` in the Zephyr documentation.

Reviewer 2: If there is a specific page that show the file structure generated by sysbuild build, it will be worth to use it instead (there are some changes, i.e. application artifacts are under a dedicated subfolder).

Author: Good point! Will look into this and get back to this.

Reviewer: The link you provided looks different than the one you implemented, @kittydepa , so I'm not sure if this line has been updated. Anyway, I'm not sure if providing a link to output files in the NCS with the detailed tables first, and then linking to a generic section in Zephyr with way less detailed list makes sense.

      #. Connect the DK to your computer using a USB cable.
      #. Power on the DK.
      #. Program the sample to the kit using the following command:

         .. code-block:: console

            west flash

         .. note::

            If you are compiling in Windows and the build is unsuccessful due to the maximum path length limitation, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

               west flash -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir

   .. group-tab:: Over UART

      1. Open a terminal window in |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample:

         .. code-block:: console

>              west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

Reviewer 2: `--sysbuild` is required here too.

:orphan:

.. _nrf54h_suit_sample:

SUIT DFU: Firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC
#############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The sample demonstrates how to update and boot the nRF54H20 System-on-Chip (SoC) using the Software Update for Internet of Things (SUIT) procedure on the application and radio cores of the SoC.

Reviewer: Link `Software Update for Internet of Things (SUIT)` to a generic SUIT intro page (in the NCS docs or external) or to a term in the glossary (which we also need anyway, actually).

  (The minimum required version is v1.5.)

For a SUIT update over UART, you need to install MCUmgr.
MCUmgr is a tool that can be used to upload SUIT envelopes through the SMP protocol.
For more information on MCUmgr installation, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr`.

Overview
********

The sample uses one of the following methods to perform a firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC, featuring Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT procedure:

* Bluetooth Low Energy and the nRF Device Manager app
* UART and MCUmgr

The sample demonstrates how to perform a DFU of the application and radio firmware.

SUIT is the only DFU procedure supported for the nRF54H20 SoCs.
To read more about the SUIT procedure, see :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_intro`.

|NCS|-specific SUIT limitations
===============================

The sample and the SUIT DFU procedure currently only support the application core and the radio core firmware updates.
Additionally, this sample is an early version and is only meant to showcase the start of Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT DFU procedure.

User interface
**************

LED 1:
    The number of blinks indicates the application SUIT envelope sequence number.

>     The default is set to ``1`` to blink once, indicating "Version 1".

Reviewer: LED 1 or LED 0? @tomchy , @FrancescoSer ? See note at the start of https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/samples/matter/light_bulb/README.html#user-interface

Author: Waiting for SME response.

Reviewer: I think we can apply here the rules Bartek posted after the meeting with Paal.

Configuration
*************

|config|

The default configuration uses UART with sequence number 1 (shown as Version 1 in the nRF Device Manager app).
To change the sequence number of the application, configure the :ref:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM` Kconfig option.
This also changes the number of blinks on **LED 1** and sets the :ref:`sequence number <ug_suit_dfu_suit_manifest_elements>` of the SUIT :ref:`envelope <ug_suit_dfu_suit_concepts>`’s manifest.

> To use this configuration, include the ``SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=x`` option with the build command, where x is the version number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this configuration, build the sample with sysbuild and set the ``SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM`` Sysbuild Kconfig option to `x`, where `x` is the version number.
```

For example:

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

> If you do not specify this configuration, the sample is built with sequence number 1 (shown as Version 1 in the nRF Device Manager app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not specify this configuration, the sample is built with sequence number 1 (shown as Version 1 in the nRF Device Manager app).
```

Modify partition sizes
======================

You can also modify the size and location of the partitions.
This is done by modifying the values for the desired location and size of the partition in the devicetree :file:`.overlay` files.

* To modify the application core’s partition size,  modify the values for ``cpuapp_slot0_partition`` defined in the :file:`zephyr/blob/main/boards/nordic/nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20-memory_map.dtsi` file within the Zephyr repository.

* To modify the DFU partition, modify the values for ``dfu_partition`` defined in :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer/boards/nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp.overlay`.

    * ``dfu_partition`` is where the update candidate is stored before the update process begins.

Manifest files
==============

The SUIT DFU procedure requires an envelope to transport the firmware update, and SUIT envelopes require a SUIT manifest.
All required manifest files (used to later create SUIT envelopes) are automatically created after the sample is built for the first time, and are the following:

* The root manifest - :file:`root_hierarchical_envelope.yaml.jinja2`

* The application domain manifest - :file:`app_envelope.yaml.jinja2`

> * The radio domain manifest - :file:`rad_envelope.yaml.jinja2`

Reviewer: We can now link to output build files here too! :)

Author: Ah, yeah! Will add.

See the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu` user guide for instructions and examples.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer`

This sample can be found under |sample path| in the |NCS| folder structure.

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Building and programming using the command line
===============================================

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 DK, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Over Bluetooth Low Energy

      1. Open a terminal window in |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample using the following ``west`` command, with the following Kconfig options set:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=1

         .. note::

            |application_sample_long_path_windows|

            In this case, you may need to run the following instead:

            .. code-block:: console

               west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir --sysbuild -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=1

>          The output build files can be found in the :file:`build/DFU` directory.
>          The following build artifacts are found with both firmware binaries embedded as integrated payloads:
> 
>           * :file:`root.suit` - This file is the most important envelope, containing the embedded :file:`application.suit` and :file:`radio.suit` files as integrated dependencies.
>             These files are used to execute DFU.
>           * :file:`application.suit` - This file is the envelope for the application core, containing embedded application core firmware as an integrated payload.
>           * :file:`radio.suit` - This file is the envelope for the radio core, containing embedded radio core firmware as an integrated payload.
> 
>          For more information about files generated as output of the build process, see :ref:`app_build_output_files`, specifically :ref:`app_build_output_files_suit_dfu`.

Reviewer: Maybe just like this? 
```suggestion
         The output build files can be found in the :file:`build/DFU` directory, including the :ref:`app_build_output_files_suit_dfu`.
```

   .. group-tab:: Over UART

      1. Open a terminal window in |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample:

         .. code-block:: console

             west build -p -b --sysbuild nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

         .. note::

            |application_sample_long_path_windows|

            In this case, you may need to run the following instead:

            .. code-block:: console

               west build -p -b --sysbuild nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:\ncs-lcs\west_working_dir\build\

         If you want to further configure your sample, see :ref:`configure_application` for additional information.

         After running the ``west build`` command, the output build files can be found in the :file:`build/dfu` directory.
         The following build artifacts are found with both firmware binaries embedded as integrated payloads:

          * :file:`root.suit` - This file is the most important envelope, containing embedded :file:`app.suit` as an integrated dependency.
            This file is used to execute DFU.
          * :file:`application.suit` - This file is the envelope for the application core, containing embedded application core firmware as an integrated payload.

>          For more information about files generated as output of the build process, see :ref:`app_build_output_files`, specifically :ref:`app_build_output_files_suit_dfu`.

Reviewer: Same as above?

            .. code-block:: console

               west flash --erase -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir

      #. Update the SUIT envelope sequence number, by rebuilding the sample with an updated sequence number:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild -- -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

         .. note::

            |application_sample_long_path_windows|

            In this case, you may need to run the following instead:

            .. code-block:: console

               west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -d C:/ncs-lcs/work-dir --sysbuild -- -SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_SEQUENCE_NUM=2

         Another :file:`root.suit` file is created after running this command, that contains the updated firmware.

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit and updating the sequence number of the SUIT envelope, complete the following steps to test it.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Over Bluetooth Low Energy

      1. Upload the signed envelope onto your mobile phone:

         a. Open the nRF Device Manager app on your mobile phone.

>          #. Select the device **SUIT SMP Sample**. You should see the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         #. Select the device **SUIT SMP Sample**.
            You should see the following:
```
